Gh actions (#844)
kyma-project/community: docs/contributing/05-gh-actions.md

- [GitHub Actions](#github-actions)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Restrictions](#restrictions)
  - [Allowed Github Actions](#allowed-github-actions)
  - [GitHub Actions Security Best Practices](#github-actions-security-best-practices)
    - [Security review](#security-review)
    - [Set the minimal scope for credentials](#set-the-minimal-scope-for-credentials)
    - [Do NOT use `pull_request_target` event](#do-not-use-pull_request_target-event)
    - [Treat event context data as untrusted input](#treat-event-context-data-as-untrusted-input)
    - [Use Dependabot](#use-dependabot)
    - [Review Action changes](#review-action-changes)
  - [Additional information](#additional-information)

## Introduction

> GitHub Actions are a powerful tool to automate almost every task of the development cycle. The ecosystem of GitHub Actions is growing very fast and one can find a prepared Action for a lot of activities. But like all other usages of Open Source Software, GitHub Actions must be handled carefully because an action is running external code on our code in our GitHub repositories.

Reviewer: I find using lowercase and uppercase "A" for the noun "actions" inconsistent. I guess "Actions" should be capitalized when referring to the feature and not capitalized when talking about a single GitHub action. WDYT?

```json
{
    "name": "full name including Github organization",
    "versions": ["hash digest of the release"],
    "repository": "full link to the repository",
    "marketplace": "full link to the Github Marketplace entry",
    "security_review_performed": true or false,
    "3rd_party_tool": {
        "tool" : "name",
        "pinned_version" : "version tag / hash",
        "repository" : "full link to the repository"},
    "comment" : ""
}
```

By adding the Action to the list and use Github Action one gives an implicit commitment to the best practices listed below.

## GitHub Actions Security Best Practices

Even though the usage of GitHub Actions is restricted, some threats remain. The responsibility to target these threats is on the developer using GitHub Actions.

### Security review

The code of the action has to be reviewed to identify suspicious parts of the code. It should be especially checked if the Action is processing secrets beside the expected usage and what kind of modification the Action does on Github resources.

### Set the minimal scope for credentials

- GITHUB_TOKEN has read and write permissions
- Must be restricted to the least minimum

> - Also valid for all other credentials used by the Github Action

Reviewer: I don't think this section should be arranged into points. What does "Must be restricted to the least minimum" refer to?

Author: Created sentences out of the text arranged in points.

### Do NOT use `pull_request_target` event

> - Avoid using `pull_request_target` if the workflow doesn't need write repository permissions and doesn't use any repository secrets. They can simply use the `pull_request` trigger instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Avoid using `pull_request_target` if the workflow doesn't need `write` repository permissions and doesn't use any repository secrets. They can simply use the `pull_request` trigger instead.
```

> - Avoid using `pull_request_target` if the workflow doesn't need write repository permissions and doesn't use any repository secrets. They can simply use the `pull_request` trigger instead.

Reviewer: What does `They` refer to in this line?

> - Assign repository privileges only where needed explicitly through pull_request and workflow_run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Assign repository privileges only where needed explicitly through `pull_request` and `workflow_run`.
```

>   - Handle untrusted code via the `pull_request` trigger so that it is isolated in an unprivileged environment.This workflow started with the `pull_request` trigger should then store any results like code coverage or failed/passed tests in artifacts and exit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Handle untrusted code via the `pull_request` trigger so that it is isolated in an unprivileged environment. This workflow started with the `pull_request` trigger should then store any results like code coverage or failed/passed tests in artifacts and exit.
```

>   - The following workflow then starts on `workflow_run` where it is granted write permission to the target repository and access to repository secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The following workflow then starts on `workflow_run` where it is granted `write` permission to the target repository and access to repository secrets.
```

>   - Find an example in this [blog post](https://securitylab.github.com/research/github-actions-preventing-pwn-requests/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Find an example in this [blog post](https://securitylab.github.com/research/github-actions-preventing-pwn-requests/).
```

> - If you really need to use the trigger `pull_request_target`, add a condition to the `pull_request_target` to run only if a certain label is assigned the PR, like safe to test that indicates the PR has been vetted by someone with write privileges to the target repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you really need to use the `pull_request_target` trigger, add a condition to the `pull_request_target` to run only if a certain label is assigned the PR, such as `safe-to-test` that indicates the PR has been vetted by someone with `write` privileges to the target repository.
```

### Treat event context data as untrusted input

> - Every workflow trigger is provided with a [GitHub context](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/learn-github-actions/contexts#github-context)
>   - Contains information about the triggering event
>   - This context data has to be treated as untrusted data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Every workflow trigger is provided with a [GitHub context](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/learn-github-actions/contexts#github-context) that contains information about the triggering event. You must treat this context data as untrusted data.
```

> - If your Action needs some input data
>   - Set the untrusted input value of the expression to an intermediate environment variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If your Action needs some input data, set the untrusted input value of the expression to an intermediate environment variable.
```

```yaml
- name: print title
  env:
    TITLE: ${{ github.event.issue.title }}
  run: echo "$TITLE"
```

### Use Dependabot

> Use Dependabot to regularly update the Github Action as described on the help page [Keeping your actions up to date with Dependabot](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/dependabot/working-with-dependabot/keeping-your-actions-up-to-date-with-dependabot).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use Dependabot to regularly update the GitHub Action as described on the help page [Keeping your actions up to date with Dependabot](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/dependabot/working-with-dependabot/keeping-your-actions-up-to-date-with-dependabot).
```

Author: Tbh, I didn't get what's changed.

Reviewer: Just the H letter in "GitHub".

### Review Action changes

> Only a small group of people, usually the repository admins, should be able to review and approve Github Actions. The following line has to be added to the CODEOWNERS file of the repository and has to be completed with the users / the team allowed to review and approve PRs regarding Github Actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only a small group of people, usually the repository administrators, should be able to review and approve GitHub Actions. Add the following list of users/teams allowed to review and approve PRs regarding GitHub Actions to the CODEOWNERS file of your repository.
```
